src/doc_writing_style_policy/doc_writing_style_policy.adoc, before:

:author: The KiCad Team
:doctype: article
:toc:
:ascii-ids:

= Doc Writing Style Policy

_Reference manual_

[[copyright]]
*Copyright*

This document is Copyright (C) 2016 by it's contributors as listed
below. You may distribute it and/or modify it under the terms of either
the GNU General Public License (http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html),
version 3 or later, or the Creative Commons Attribution License
(http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/), version 3.0 or later.

All trademarks within this guide belong to their legitimate owners.

[[contributors]]
*Contributors*

André Schieleit.

[[feedback]]
*Feedback*

Please direct any bug reports, suggestions or new versions to here:

- About KiCad document: https://github.com/KiCad/kicad-doc/issues

- About KiCad software: https://bugs.launchpad.net/kicad

- About KiCad software i18n: https://github.com/KiCad/kicad-i18n/issues


[[publication_date]]
*Publication date*

Published on January 3, 2016.

//Since docbook "article" is more compact, I have to separate this page
<<<<

[[_content]]
== Content

The documentation for KiCad is done in English.

=== Wording

* Generally the documentation is described in a passive style. This means there
  are no sentences like "Now I will tell you how KiCad works." This would be
  phrased: "KiCad works in the following way."
* The documentation for KiCad will be done in a formal way. Use the appropriate
  words to address the reader in a formal way, i.e. do not address the reader
  as you would address a friend but as you would address a business partner.
  This is especially meant for translations as English mostly does not use such
  distinction. (e.g. the English 'Click on X' translates in German either to
  'Klicke auf X' when talking to a friend but to 'Klicken Sie auf X' when
  talking to a stranger.)
* Working instructions in tutorial passages are written like actual instructions
  to the reader, i.e. Use „To close the window click on the 'OK' button.“
  but not „Clicking on the 'OK' button will close the window.“.


[[_style]]
== Style

=== Unicode
The documentation for KiCad uses Unicode for character encoding.
Unicode characters should be used where no equivalent AsciiDoc entity exists.
Here is a list of commonly used charakters where an AsciiDoc entity exists (see
also
http://asciidoctor.org/docs/asciidoc-syntax-quick-reference/#text-replacement):
* Ellipsis: three dots in a row are translated to …
* Em-Dash: two hyphens in a row are translated to —

Nonetheless AsciiDoc respects and preserves Unicode characters, so you are free
to use Unicode also.

=== Translations
Text must be written in the correct language characters.
If there are other conventions for formatting content than in English these
conventions must be used.
For instance English numbers use the '.' as decimal whereas in German the ','
is used (e.g. '2.54' vs. '2,54').

=== Medium Dependend Styles
* documentation for electronic display
** uses a sans serif font for better readability
** has top, bottom, left and right margin of 2em
* documentation for print
** may use a serif font (though the trend in print also goes sans serif)
** has top, bottom, left and right margin of 2 cm

=== Titles
* Titles are used only once per document to define the title of the document.
* Titles are centered and set in a 22pt bold font.

=== Headings
* There is a maximum of only four levels of headings that are numbered within
  a document and may occur in a table of contents.
* Headings are written with capital letters for each noun, verb, adjective and
  adverb.
* Headings have no additional indentation relative to the paragraphs.
* Headings are numbered with arabic numbers.
* Headings have a padding top and bottom of 12 pt.
* *First level headings* are set in a 18 pt bold font.
** First level headings are numbered concecutively with a single leading number.
** First level headings are used to form chapters.
** Chapters may stand alone without any sections.
* *Second level headings* are set in a 16 pt bold font
** Second level headings are numbered with two numbers seperated by a period.
   The first number is the number of the chapter, the second number is the
   concecutive number of the section in that chapter.
** Second level headings are used to form sections.
** Sections may only exist if there is more than one section or it contains
   more than one subsection.
* *Third level headings* are set in a 14 pt bold font.
** Third level headings are numbered with three numbers seperated by a period.
   The first number is the number of the chapter, the second number of the
   section and the third is the concecutive number of the subsection in that
   section.
** Third level headings are used to form subsections.
** Subsections may only exist if there is more than one subsection or it
   contains more than one sub-subsection.
* *Forth and higher level headings* are set in a 12 pt bold font.
** Forth level headings are numbered analog to the lower level headings
   numbering scheme.
** Forth level headings are used to form sub-subsections.
** Sub-subsections may only exist if there is more than one sub-subsection.
* *Fifth level headings* are not numbered and are only used for subheadings
  e.g. in a chapter with no sections.

=== Paragraphs
* Paragraphs are set in a 12 pt font.
* Paragraphs have a bottom padding of 12 pt.
* Each paragraph starts with a capital letter.

== Quotes and Quotations
* *Single quotes* (') are used for literal names of files and such (e.g.
  'netlist.net' or '*.sch').
* *Double quotes* (") are used for naming things that would literally look
  different (e.g. "n-dash" vs. '–' or "alpha" vs. 'α' or "netlist file" vs.
  'netlist.net').
* *Typographic quotes* („“) are used for inline quotations like „These are not
  the diodes you're looking for.“.
* *Block quotes* are used to quote larger amounts of text.
** Block quotes are indented with a padding left and right by 2em.
** Block quotes have a padding top and bottom of 12pt.
** Block quotes have a frame of 2px with a color of 50% grey.

=== Lists
* There are only two kinds of lists in use: ordered (numbered) lists and
  unordered (unnumbered) lists.
* *Unordered lists* use the bullet character (•) for the first level and
  hyphens ("n-dash": '–') for the second level for displaying the list
  elements.
** Unordered lists are the default lists.
** Up to three list levels are allowed.
** When an unordered list is used to explain things, the first item of the
   list entry (thing to explain) is set in bold font
* *Ordered lists* use arabic numbers, the second level of an ordered list uses
  lowercase letters
** Ordered lists are used for working instructions and such where the order of
   steps is important
** More than two list levels are not allowed.

=== Tables
* The caption for tables is put above the table, set in bold font and left aligned.
* Captions are useful for reference such as "look on Table 3.2 row 6".
* The caption of tables is numbered with two numbers separated by a period. The
  first number is the number of the current chapter, the second number is the
  consecutive number of the table in the current chapter. 
** Example: *Table 2.3: Table Example*
* Tables should be kept short enough to fit on a single page for readability.
* The header of the table is set in bold font.
* The lines between table cells are drawn in a grey color (80% grey). 

=== Images
* The caption for images is put below the image, set in bold font and left
  aligned.
* The caption of images starts with the text 'Image ' is numbered with two
  numbers separated by a period. The first number is the number of the current
  chapter, the second number is the concecutive number of the table in the
  current chapter.
** Example: *Image 1.3: Example Image*
* The image size for online display should not exceed 640 pixels width.
* The image size for online display of tool icons should be between 24x24 and
  32x32 pixels.
* Images for print should not contain less than 150 dpi pixel density for high
  image quality. Screenshots are generally not good for print output.
* Images from screenshots should be made in PNG format, JPG is inferior for
  this kind of images.


=== Code Examples
* code examples are command line examples, script examples, text file contents
  or similar
* code examples are set in a monospaced font
* the caption for code examples is put above the example
* code examples are displayed with a thin frame around them and a shaded
  background (≈80% grey)

=== Footnotes
* Footnotes must not be used.
** For online display in a long document the footnotes will be out of screen
   for the reader and therefore not very helpful.
* Instead use the NOTE syntax of AsciiDoc. These will be displayed different
  than normal paragraphs.
** Notes have a note-title set in 14pt bold font that is left aligned.
** Notes are numbered with a trailing number consecutively throughout the
   document, i.e. 'Note 1', 'Note 2' etc.
** The body of the note is set below the note-title and left-indented by 3em.
** The note text is set in a italic style.
** Notes have a light grey background.
** The space provided by the indentation shows a symbol according to the type
   of note, i.e. `NOTE:`, `TIP:`, `IMPORTANT:`, `CAUTION:`, `WARNING:`. These
   symbols are defined globally and shared between all documents.

[[_structure]]
== Structure
=== Documentation Structure
The KiCad documentation has a structure that provides information on a single
place. Duplicate information in different documents is to be avoided and proper
linking to the document containing the information is mandatory. I.e.:
* There is one document that describes the common GUI elements and all other
  documents point to that document. 
* There is one document that describes how the component editor works and all
  other documents link to that document.

The whole documentation of KiCad follows the structure shown below whereas each
individual document follows the structure given in <<_document_structure>>.
* KiCad
** This document gives general information about the software suite and
   introduction of all software modules.
** Description of the KiCad Manager
** Description of the common GUI elements that are available in every individual
   software module.
* Getting Started
** This document describes the basic usage and general workflow of all KiCad
   modules to give the user an idea what can be accomplished using KiCad. For
   all deeper information will be referenced to the individual Reference
   Manuals.
* Eeschema
** This document describes the schematic capture module of KiCad.
* LibEdit
** This document describes the component editor an component library manager
   module of KiCad.
* Pcbnew
** This document describes the PCB layout module of KiCad.
* FootprintEditor
** This document describes the footprint editor and footprint library manager
   module of KiCad.
* Gerbview
** This document describes the Gerber file viewer module of KiCad.
* Bitmap2component
** This document describes the module of KiCad that generates footprints from
   bitmaps.
* Pcb Calculator
** This document describes the module of KiCad that helps with calculations
   related to PCB layout and such.
* Pl Editor
** This document describes the module of KiCad that helps setting up frame
   references.

[[_document_structure]]
=== Document Structure

The documentation (Reference Manual) for all modules of KiCad (Eeschema,
Pcbnew, etc.) shares the same basic structure. This is to give the reader
a better experience when searching for support.

* Document title
** Copyright information
** Author(s) information
** Feedback information
** Date of creation
* Chapter 1: Introduction
** purpose of this document, what information will be found here
** short description of the software module
* Chapter 2: Installation and Setup
** since all software modules will be installed by installing the main software
   package there will be no installation information for the individual modules
** Setup section describes how to set up default and project specifc values for
   this module
* Chapter 3: Basic Usage
** This section describes all menu items and the use of all tools available in
   individual tool bars. The description is done in a tutorial style following
   a simple simple design workflow.
* Chapter 4: Advanced Usage
** This section describes all deeper nested menu settings and special tool
   configurations needed for advanced designs (e.g. differential designs). Also
   information regarding scripting and other advanced usage is to be found here.
* Chapter 5: References (optional)
** This section provides further references to (external) sources related to the
   current topic, e.g. PCB layout guides or schematic style guides.

Commit message:

add Teminology section and initial entries

src/doc_writing_style_policy/doc_writing_style_policy.adoc, after:

:author: The KiCad Team
:doctype: article
:toc:
:ascii-ids:

= Doc Writing Style Policy

_Reference manual_

[[copyright]]
*Copyright*

This document is Copyright (C) 2016 by it's contributors as listed
below. You may distribute it and/or modify it under the terms of either
the GNU General Public License (http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html),
version 3 or later, or the Creative Commons Attribution License
(http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/), version 3.0 or later.

All trademarks within this guide belong to their legitimate owners.

[[contributors]]
*Contributors*

André Schieleit.

[[feedback]]
*Feedback*

Please direct any bug reports, suggestions or new versions to here:

- About KiCad document: https://github.com/KiCad/kicad-doc/issues

- About KiCad software: https://bugs.launchpad.net/kicad

- About KiCad software i18n: https://github.com/KiCad/kicad-i18n/issues


[[publication_date]]
*Publication date*

Published on January 3, 2016.

//Since docbook "article" is more compact, I have to separate this page
<<<<

[[_content]]
== Content

The documentation for KiCad is done in English.

=== Wording

* Generally the documentation is described in a passive style. This means there
  are no sentences like "Now I will tell you how KiCad works." This would be
  phrased: "KiCad works in the following way."
* The documentation for KiCad will be done in a formal way. Use the appropriate
  words to address the reader in a formal way, i.e. do not address the reader
  as you would address a friend but as you would address a business partner.
  This is especially meant for translations as English mostly does not use such
  distinction. (e.g. the English 'Click on X' translates in German either to
  'Klicke auf X' when talking to a friend but to 'Klicken Sie auf X' when
  talking to a stranger.)
* Working instructions in tutorial passages are written like actual instructions
  to the reader, i.e. Use „To close the window click on the 'OK' button.“
  but not „Clicking on the 'OK' button will close the window.“.

=== Terminology

This section collects all definitions for a uniform use of the same terms for
naming things througout all documentation.
* *Software suite*: This term describes KiCad as a whole including
  all software modules.
* *Software module*: This term describes each individual software, i.e.
  Eeschema, Pcbnew, etc.

[[_style]]
== Style

=== Unicode
The documentation for KiCad uses Unicode for character encoding.
Unicode characters should be used where no equivalent AsciiDoc entity exists.
Here is a list of commonly used charakters where an AsciiDoc entity exists (see
also
http://asciidoctor.org/docs/asciidoc-syntax-quick-reference/#text-replacement):
* Ellipsis: three dots in a row are translated to …
* Em-Dash: two hyphens in a row are translated to —

Nonetheless AsciiDoc respects and preserves Unicode characters, so you are free
to use Unicode also.

=== Translations
Text must be written in the correct language characters.
If there are other conventions for formatting content than in English these
conventions must be used.
For instance English numbers use the '.' as decimal whereas in German the ','
is used (e.g. '2.54' vs. '2,54').

=== Medium Dependend Styles
* documentation for electronic display
** uses a sans serif font for better readability
** has top, bottom, left and right margin of 2em
* documentation for print
** may use a serif font (though the trend in print also goes sans serif)
** has top, bottom, left and right margin of 2 cm

=== Titles
* Titles are used only once per document to define the title of the document.
* Titles are centered and set in a 22pt bold font.

=== Headings
* There is a maximum of only four levels of headings that are numbered within
  a document and may occur in a table of contents.
* Headings are written with capital letters for each noun, verb, adjective and
  adverb.
* Headings have no additional indentation relative to the paragraphs.
* Headings are numbered with arabic numbers.
* Headings have a padding top and bottom of 12 pt.
* *First level headings* are set in a 18 pt bold font.
** First level headings are numbered concecutively with a single leading number.
** First level headings are used to form chapters.
** Chapters may stand alone without any sections.
* *Second level headings* are set in a 16 pt bold font
** Second level headings are numbered with two numbers seperated by a period.
   The first number is the number of the chapter, the second number is the
   concecutive number of the section in that chapter.
** Second level headings are used to form sections.
** Sections may only exist if there is more than one section or it contains
   more than one subsection.
* *Third level headings* are set in a 14 pt bold font.
** Third level headings are numbered with three numbers seperated by a period.
   The first number is the number of the chapter, the second number of the
   section and the third is the concecutive number of the subsection in that
   section.
** Third level headings are used to form subsections.
** Subsections may only exist if there is more than one subsection or it
   contains more than one sub-subsection.
* *Forth and higher level headings* are set in a 12 pt bold font.
** Forth level headings are numbered analog to the lower level headings
   numbering scheme.
** Forth level headings are used to form sub-subsections.
** Sub-subsections may only exist if there is more than one sub-subsection.
* *Fifth level headings* are not numbered and are only used for subheadings
  e.g. in a chapter with no sections.

=== Paragraphs
* Paragraphs are set in a 12 pt font.
* Paragraphs have a bottom padding of 12 pt.
* Each paragraph starts with a capital letter.

== Quotes and Quotations
* *Single quotes* (') are used for literal names of files and such (e.g.
  'netlist.net' or '*.sch').
* *Double quotes* (") are used for naming things that would literally look
  different (e.g. "n-dash" vs. '–' or "alpha" vs. 'α' or "netlist file" vs.
  'netlist.net').
* *Typographic quotes* („“) are used for inline quotations like „These are not
  the diodes you're looking for.“.
* *Block quotes* are used to quote larger amounts of text.
** Block quotes are indented with a padding left and right by 2em.
** Block quotes have a padding top and bottom of 12pt.
** Block quotes have a frame of 2px with a color of 50% grey.

=== Lists
* There are only two kinds of lists in use: ordered (numbered) lists and
  unordered (unnumbered) lists.
* *Unordered lists* use the bullet character (•) for the first level and
  hyphens ("n-dash": '–') for the second level for displaying the list
  elements.
** Unordered lists are the default lists.
** Up to three list levels are allowed.
** When an unordered list is used to explain things, the first item of the
   list entry (thing to explain) is set in bold font
* *Ordered lists* use arabic numbers, the second level of an ordered list uses
  lowercase letters
** Ordered lists are used for working instructions and such where the order of
   steps is important
** More than two list levels are not allowed.

=== Tables
* The caption for tables is put above the table, set in bold font and left aligned.
* Captions are useful for reference such as "look on Table 3.2 row 6".
* The caption of tables is numbered with two numbers separated by a period. The
  first number is the number of the current chapter, the second number is the
  consecutive number of the table in the current chapter. 
** Example: *Table 2.3: Table Example*
* Tables should be kept short enough to fit on a single page for readability.
* The header of the table is set in bold font.
* The lines between table cells are drawn in a grey color (80% grey). 

=== Images
* The caption for images is put below the image, set in bold font and left
  aligned.
* The caption of images starts with the text 'Image ' is numbered with two
  numbers separated by a period. The first number is the number of the current
  chapter, the second number is the concecutive number of the table in the
  current chapter.
** Example: *Image 1.3: Example Image*
* The image size for online display should not exceed 640 pixels width.
* The image size for online display of tool icons should be between 24x24 and
  32x32 pixels.
* Images for print should not contain less than 150 dpi pixel density for high
  image quality. Screenshots are generally not good for print output.
* Images from screenshots should be made in PNG format, JPG is inferior for
  this kind of images.


=== Code Examples
* code examples are command line examples, script examples, text file contents
  or similar
* code examples are set in a monospaced font
* the caption for code examples is put above the example
* code examples are displayed with a thin frame around them and a shaded
  background (≈80% grey)

=== Footnotes
* Footnotes must not be used.
** For online display in a long document the footnotes will be out of screen
   for the reader and therefore not very helpful.
* Instead use the NOTE syntax of AsciiDoc. These will be displayed different
  than normal paragraphs.
** Notes have a note-title set in 14pt bold font that is left aligned.
** Notes are numbered with a trailing number consecutively throughout the
   document, i.e. 'Note 1', 'Note 2' etc.
** The body of the note is set below the note-title and left-indented by 3em.
** The note text is set in a italic style.
** Notes have a light grey background.
** The space provided by the indentation shows a symbol according to the type
   of note, i.e. `NOTE:`, `TIP:`, `IMPORTANT:`, `CAUTION:`, `WARNING:`. These
   symbols are defined globally and shared between all documents.

[[_structure]]
== Structure
=== Documentation Structure
The KiCad documentation has a structure that provides information on a single
place. Duplicate information in different documents is to be avoided and proper
linking to the document containing the information is mandatory. I.e.:
* There is one document that describes the common GUI elements and all other
  documents point to that document. 
* There is one document that describes how the component editor works and all
  other documents link to that document.

The whole documentation of KiCad follows the structure shown below whereas each
individual document follows the structure given in <<_document_structure>>.
* KiCad
** This document gives general information about the software suite and
   introduction of all software modules.
** Description of the KiCad Manager
** Description of the common GUI elements that are available in every individual
   software module.
* Getting Started
** This document describes the basic usage and general workflow of all KiCad
   modules to give the user an idea what can be accomplished using KiCad. For
   all deeper information will be referenced to the individual Reference
   Manuals.
* Eeschema
** This document describes the schematic capture module of KiCad.
* LibEdit
** This document describes the component editor an component library manager
   module of KiCad.
* Pcbnew
** This document describes the PCB layout module of KiCad.
* FootprintEditor
** This document describes the footprint editor and footprint library manager
   module of KiCad.
* Gerbview
** This document describes the Gerber file viewer module of KiCad.
* Bitmap2component
** This document describes the module of KiCad that generates footprints from
   bitmaps.
* Pcb Calculator
** This document describes the module of KiCad that helps with calculations
   related to PCB layout and such.
* Pl Editor
** This document describes the module of KiCad that helps setting up frame
   references.

[[_document_structure]]
=== Document Structure

The documentation (Reference Manual) for all modules of KiCad (Eeschema,
Pcbnew, etc.) shares the same basic structure. This is to give the reader
a better experience when searching for support.

* Document title
** Copyright information
** Author(s) information
** Feedback information
** Date of creation
* Chapter 1: Introduction
** purpose of this document, what information will be found here
** short description of the software module
* Chapter 2: Installation and Setup
** since all software modules will be installed by installing the main software
   package there will be no installation information for the individual modules
** Setup section describes how to set up default and project specifc values for
   this module
* Chapter 3: Basic Usage
** This section describes all menu items and the use of all tools available in
   individual tool bars. The description is done in a tutorial style following
   a simple simple design workflow.
* Chapter 4: Advanced Usage
** This section describes all deeper nested menu settings and special tool
   configurations needed for advanced designs (e.g. differential designs). Also
   information regarding scripting and other advanced usage is to be found here.
* Chapter 5: References (optional)
** This section provides further references to (external) sources related to the
   current topic, e.g. PCB layout guides or schematic style guides.
